[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My dad always used to say,
if you don't know what you
don't know, you won't
know till you find out.
And self-awareness
is a lot like that.
There's nothing quite
like waking up in a ditch
on the side of the road, soaking
wet from a tropical rainstorm,
dead cell phone in hand,
not a soul in sight.
I was in my early
20s, and I thought,
something's got to change,
something I felt off in my life
for a very long time, something
I couldn't quite put my finger
on.
People kept telling me I had
everything I needed to succeed.
So why did I keep failing?
It was as if I had become my
own worst enemy, mistakenly
and unknowingly.
My friends knew it that
day when they scooped me up
off the side of the
road, and they told me
I needed to get some help.
I was not one to
readily receive help,
but ironically
enough, I was studying
to be a therapist at that time.
So for the sake of my career
and the sake of my sanity,
I decided to go to therapy
for the first time.
While in therapy, through the
diagnostic lens of my therapist,
I became aware of three things.
I became aware that my
childhood was not normal,
even if it was normal to me.
I became aware of
the fact that I
had something called a
dissociative disorder, where
stimuli in my environment
would cause me
to check out and leave my body.
And I became aware
that I had something
called PTSD, a
diagnosis that would
make it 50% more likely that
I would experience trauma
again later in life.
If I didn't stay on my
self-awareness path,
I would continue to
repeat the patterns that
clearly weren't working.
So I figured I should start
by getting to know myself.
I kicked off
Operation Fix Myself
because I thought something
was wrong with me,
and I wanted to learn how
to be my own best friend.
Receiving a trauma
diagnosis was kind
of like getting a
key to a locked door,
but I want to know what was
on the other side of the door.
I had a lot of questions.
I thought of trauma
as being something
that had happened
to me in the past,
not something that
was continuing
to happen inside of me.
So I figured I should start by
trying to catch my dissociation.
The first time I caught
it, a friend of mine
was expressing a ton of anger,
and he was very intense,
and I noticed myself
closing off very subtly.
And in that moment,
intuitively, I
thought, what if I
just shifted my body?
And then I was able
to stay in my body.
And I learned that his
anger triggered my shutdown,
and I could be aware of it.
I learned that the
word "interoception"
means to feel internally
what's going on.
So I started practicing
interoception everywhere
I went--
at the gym, eating food,
checking people's vibes.
I tried all my senses
differently too,
which allowed me to stay
grounded inside myself, which
allowed me to learn
more about myself,
peeling back layer
after layer after layer.
But I still had questions.
What would cause my
mind to leave my body?
Did this happen to other people?
Did it change the
trajectory of my life?
Could I change my
PTSD diagnosis,
or was I stuck with it forever?
It took me six universities, a
mental health counseling degree,
and 12 years of
self-awareness work
to realize that the
answer to my questions
resided in my nervous system.
I spent the last three
years understanding
why the nervous system
is the core integration
tool to your self-awareness.
So what do you think of when
you think of the nervous system?
Most people think of
an anatomy textbook.
They think of a brain and all
the squiggly lines for nerves.
And really, we think
that because that's
all we've ever been shown.
That's the hardware
of the nervous system.
But the software is the energy,
the feelings, the sensations,
the intuition that comes up.
That creates an infinite
loop between your internal
and your external experience.
The software and the
hardware combined
create a processing
mechanism for you
to interact in your world.
Self-awareness is a nervous
system software update.
You wouldn't walk around
with an outdated cell phone.
I don't even think the tech
companies would allow you
if you tried.
So why wouldn't you update
the software in your body?
You don't have to feel the
way you've been conditioned
to feel in your life.
And I'd like to help people
live more embodied lives so they
can shift into alignment
with themselves
and think differently about
the way that they feel.
The nervous system is always on.
If it wasn't, you'd be dead.
And we all have one.
It was conditioned
at a time and place
where you had absolutely no
control over what impacted it
or why.
And now, as adults, we
walk around in our lives
with very minimal
awareness of the reactivity
that we're experiencing.
We're not aware of how
our conditioning impacts
our everyday lives.
In fact, we avoid it or, I
said, live in reactivity to it.
But if you can bring
awareness to it,
you can embody your
experience, and you
can cultivate the self-awareness
you need to make those changes.
Most people, when they
think of the nervous system,
they think of it as
being either on or off.
You might be familiar with
the words "fight or flight."
But there are actually six
different nervous system states.
Three are primary, and
three are combinations
of those primary states.
Have you ever mixed pink
and yellow to get orange?
The nervous system
mixes fight or flight
with warmth and compassion
to get the sensation of play.
Each nervous system state
has a biological cascade
that changes the
neurotransmission, blood flow,
hormone release, and other
bodily functions related
to what we feel motivated to
do at any given moment in time.
If one of those biological
cascades stays on for too long,
that cascade gets wired.
And this is what
we think of when
we see stress is causing heart
attacks in men or burnout
in women.
But the bad feelings
aren't always
bad if we know how
to move through them.
Like I said, you don't
have to feel the way you've
been conditioned to feel.
In fact, I told people in
my career a really long time
that feelings aren't
controllable directly
by free will, and I'm beginning
to think that I was wrong.
In fact, I think that,
with this awareness,
you can shift the
way that you feel.
When I ask clients after
years of working with hundreds
of clients what their
goals are, they usually
say they want to
be happy, right?
They say that they don't know
how to feel their feelings,
that they fear their
feelings, that they
don't want to be controlled
by their feelings,
but they want to feel
more of a feeling.
But I'm starting to wonder if
what if by happy, what they
actually mean is that
they want to feel calm.
They want to feel safe and know
they can respond to a threat
if it arises.
I think the world
needs more of that.
I think the world needs
more embodied awareness
of their nervous system.
I think that if we can
change the way we think
about our feelings, we might
feel like we can do something
about our feelings.
What would change
in your life if you
felt like you could do something
about the way you feel?
What if making that change is
rooted in your nervous system
and self-awareness?
And what if changing
as individuals
helps us change as
a whole in society?
What if we were able to have
more connection, less division,
more embodiment, less
dissociation, more resilience,
less reactivity?
Would we live in a happier
and healthier world for all?
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]